# Advanced Dice Thrower

## Learning Goals

- Generate variable die throws
- Generate a `Hash` of die throws
- Retrieve conditional results

## Introduction

In the previous dice thrower lab, we created methods to throw a single die and
to generate a set of results, simulating the ability to roll as many dice as
we'd like. Most dice games involve more than one die, rolled repeatedly through
the game.

Say we wanted to start building a CLI version of the game of [Settlers of
Catan]. In the game, each player takes turns rolling two six-sided dice. Each
roll can be thought of as a set, so over the course of a game, rolls look
something like this:

```ruby
Turn One: [4,4]
Turn Two: [2,5]
Turn Three: [5,6]
Turn Four: [3,3]
Turn Five: [4,3]
...
```

Some rolls in Settlers of Catan are special - if the two rolled dice add up to
_7_, the player gets to take special action (steal resources from another
player).

In this lab, we will be writing methods to simulate this behavior. We will not
be building Settlers of Catan, but will expand on what we've already written
to and set up a foundation we can use for _any_ sort of dice-based game.

## Generate a Hash of Die Throws

If you take a look in `lib/dice_thrower_advanced.rb`, `throw_die` and
`generate_set` are already provided (although they may differ from your previous
solution).

First, we want to simulate and keep track of the 'turns' of a dice game. A turn
might involve rolling multiple dice. We've already got the ability to create
`Array`s of dice rolls, so each set we create can work as a single turn. But
how can we track these sets over many turns?

Let's write a method called `generate_hash_set` that uses `generate_set` to
return a `Hash` of multiple dice throws. The results of each turn can be stored
in the `Hash` using the current 'turn' as the key and the `Array` of die throws
as the value. For example, if we roll two 6 sided die five times, it might look
like the following:

```ruby
{
    1 => [5,3]
    2 => [2,1]
    3 => [2,6]
    4 => [6,3]
    5 => [4,4]
}
```

With this set up, the entire `Hash` can be thought of as a record of the game,
and could even be used to track whose turn it is. We can also keep this abstract
enough that if we wanted to simulate a game like Yahtzee, we can easily adjust
to using _five_ dice per turn.

## Retrieve Conditional Results

Next, we will build a method called `lucky_number_seven`. If all the dice in
an `Array` add up to 7, we want to print "You're pretty lucky!"

If "7" is rolled 2 or more times _in a row_, create a condition that prints
"Wow, you're on a roll!". If there are no values of "7" in your hash, it will
print "No such luck this time!". This method should only accept only 1
argument--the hash generated by `generate_hash_set`.

## Generate Variable Die Throws

So far, we've got a good foundation for all sorts of dice games. We could now
create CLI versions of all sorts of board games. But what about our Dungeons and
Dragons friends? They've got all kinds of dice with a variable number of sides.

Let's create two new methods for for friends: `roll_prompt` and
`throw_variable_die`. The `roll_prompt` method will accept any number of sides
from 3 to 100. When a valid number is passed in, print a message that says:
"We're rolling a `[number_of_sides]`sided die!". If a number less than 3 or
greater than 100 is passed in, it should return: "Oops! This die does not exist.
Please enter a number between 3 and 100".

**NOTE:** Use `prints` instead of `puts` to print output to the terminal.

Similarly to `throw_die`, the `throw_variable_die` method will roll the die, but
instead of using a fixed number of 6, it will accept the same integer that was
passed into `roll_prompt`.

**HINT:** Randomly generated integers start at 0. Make sure that you
accommodates for this so that 0 is not a possible number that can be rolled.

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You were able to utilize and potentially refactor existing code
to add more complex, game-like methods to your Ruby program. Are there ways
that the methods can be split up even further for simplicity? Keep this in mind
as your programs become more complex.

## Resources

- [Settlers of Catan]

[Settlers of Catan]: https://www.catan.com/
